# Master’s Thesis Project: LLM experiments

This repository contains the code and resources for the thesis thesis.

## Repository Structure

This project contains scripts and data for evaluating code generated by LLMs. The repository is organized as follows:

* **`data/`**: Stores input datasets. Most dataset are downloaded from HuggingFace.
* **`evaluation_scripts/`**: Holds python scripts for calculating metrics, statistical data and visuliazation plots.
* **`experiment_scripts/`**: Holds Python scripts for running inference on the models. (Rewrite to experiment scripts)
* **`results/`**: Contains raw model outputs, filtered code snippets and images. Evaluation scripts refer to this folder.
* **`interview/`**: Contains resources for the interview.

**External Model Dependency:**

For running the local models (**`experiment_scripts/TODO?`** and **`experiment_scripts/Wizardcoder`**), it expects a directory named `Models` to be located in the parent directory of this repository (`../Models/`). This directory should contain the model files for each local model used in the evaluation. This setup allows for the use of large models without bloating the Git repository.

**API Model Dependency:**

For running the API based models, addition API keys needs to be listed in a python file ```config.py``` in the main folder.

**Virtual Environment Setup:**

1.  Navigate to the project directory.
2.  Create a virtual environment: `python3 -m venv env`
3.  Activate the virtual environment:
    * On macOS/Linux: `source env/bin/activate`
    * On Windows: `env\Scripts\activate`
4.  Install the required dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`


## Run experiments and evaluation scripts:

Description how to run the experiments with different configurations

**Prompt setup:**

Each input prompt to the models consist of 4 pieces which is formulated in file: `experiment_scripts/prompt_technique_template.py`. Depending which prompt technique to run, make sure only the present techniques prompt constants are accessable, keep the others commented out!

**models scripts**

In `experiment_scripts/`, each model has its own folder together with the scripts to run the experiments on each of the datasets. The result from these scripts are saved in the results's sub-folders with the model name.

**Evaluation scripts** 

For the three different metrics used in this project, each has a corresponding script in `evaluation_scripts/`. For **Cognitive Complexity**, the python library ''complexipy'' is used for the calculations. The script is hardcoded to run on the subfolders to each model. 



## Thesis results:
TODO: Showcase result maybe???